---
title: Key management
id: key-management
---

## 🔐 Keyring 

### Node security

The **keyring** is used to store and manage the keys used to interact with **Validator nodes** and other nodes. The keyring allows private keys to be stored securely without being exposed to a potential attacker. The keyring can be interacted with using the `cudos-noded` CLI tool.

Several backend implementations can be configured as part of setting up the keyring to store private keys.

:::tip Selecting a backend to store private keys

### *The `os` backend (default)*

***This is the backend chosen for the rest of this guide. ***

`os` is the default option as OS credential managers are designed to meet most common needs and provide a streamlined experience without compromising on security.

The `os` backend uses operating system-specific defaults to handle credentials and key storage securely. These include password prompts and user sessions according to user defined password policies. Here is a list of the most popular operating systems and their respective passwords manager.

* macOS (since Mac OS 8.6): Keychain 
[View details at external site](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/keychain-access/welcome/mac)

* Windows: Credentials Management API 
[View details at external site](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/secauthn/credentials-management)

* GNU/Linux:
    * libsecret 
    [View details at external site](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/libsecret)
    * kwallet 
    [View details at external site](https://api.kde.org/frameworks/kwallet/html/index.html)

### *The `file` backend*

***Recommended for a headless environment***.

The `file` backend stores the keyring encrypted inside the application configuration directory. A password is requested each time the keyring is accessed.

The first time you add a key to an empty keyring, you are prompted to type the password twice.

### *The `pass` backend*

***Recommended for a headless environment***.

The `pass` backend uses the pass utility to manage on-disk encryption of keys' sensitive data and metadata. Keys are stored inside `gpg` encrypted files within app-specific directories. `pass` is available for the most popular UNIX operating systems as well as GNU/Linux distributions. 

[**Find out more about `pass`**](https://www.passwordstore.org/)

### *The `test` backend*

The `test` backend is a password-less variation of the file backend. Keys are stored unencrypted on disk.

**For testing purposes only.** 

#The memory backend
The memory backend stores keys in memory. The keys are immediately deleted after the program has exited.

***For testing purposes only.***

:::

### How to add a new key to the keyring 

In this example, we'll add a new key to a `test` backend and store it as a variable. 

```shell
$ cudosnoded keys add testytestkey --keyring-backend test 

# Store the generated address as a variable

TESTYTESTKEY_ADDRESS

```

## Third party security options

**Validator Operators** must consider whether they want to be fully responsible for Key Management or if they want to leverage third-party infrastructure to do so. 

### Tendermint Key Management System (KMS) (Beta)

Validators can research the Key Management System intended for Cosmos Validators. 
[Check it out](https://github.com/iqlusioninc/tmkms).

It provides isolated, optionally HSM-backed signing key management for transaction signing. Designed to be deployed on separate physical hosts. It provides the following:

1. High-availability access to validator signing keys
2. Double-signing prevention even in the event the validator process is compromised
3. Hardware security module storage for validator keys which can survive host compromise

### Hardware Security Modules

:::caution
Solutions for cloud-based infrastructure are still evolving. Check out discussions on [**Cosmos Hub Forum**](https://forum.cosmos.network/t/running-a-validator-in-a-cloud-environment/587) and in [**Validator Chat in Discord**](https://discord.com/channels/593796681103966208/849951329174421504).
:::

HSM modules must support `ed25519` signatures. The YubiHSM2 supports `ed25519`. 
The following [Yubikey library is available](https://github.com/iqlusioninc/yubihsm.rs)

The **YubiKey** is a hardware authentication device manufactured by Yubico to protect access to computers, networks, and online services. It supports one-time passwords (OTP), public-key cryptography, and authentication. It allows users to securely log into their accounts by emitting one-time passwords or using a FIDO-based public/private key pair generated by the device. 
