---
title: Wallets
id: wallet
---

**Wallets** provide a convenient way to generate and store **key pairs** and perform various basic activities such as:

*creating transactions*,

*signing messages*,

*interacting with applications*,

*communicating with the blockchain*.

## What are Wallets?

Wallets are **addresses** generated from an initial secret. Wallets such as **Keplr** generate an initial secret from 12 or 24 words known as a mnemonic (taken from a standardised dictionary). This mnemonic acts as a **Master Private Key**.

From this initial mnemonic, multiple key pairs can be derived with the Public key from each key pair used to derive an **address**.

## Wallet Accounts

A **Wallet Account** consists of:

1. **Private Key**
2. **Public Key**
3. **Address**

Each Wallet address corresponds to a single key pair that can always be reproduced deterministically from a mnemonic by knowing its derivation path. So, a mnemonic phrase is turned into a seed or master private key using [BIP39](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0039.mediawiki). This master private key is used to compute a public key, an address is then generated from the public key.

This means that for a single account there is a single address.

Other standards such as [BIP 44](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/6a5c99fcc9/bip-0044.mediawiki) use the seed or master key generated by BIP 39 to compute actual private keys.

## How to create a Cudos account from a Wallet

A Cudos account is created from a wallet address when a signed transaction that references that wallet address is performed.

For example, when CUDOS tokens are transfered to a wallet account. This first transaction sets the `Address` field to the **wallet Address** and the `AccountNumber` field is set to the number of accounts held in that wallet. So if this is the 4th account in your wallet, the `AccountNumber` is set to 4.

## CUDOS Compatible Wallets

You can use **Keplr** and **Cosmostation** wallets on the Cudos network.

### Keplr Wallet

See how to create a Keplr wallet [***here***](./wallets/keplr-create.md)

[***Install Keplr as a Browser extension***](https://www.keplr.app/download)

### Cosmostation Wallet

See how to create a Cosmostation wallet [***here***](./wallets/cosmostation-create.md)

[***Install Cosmostation as a Browser extension***](https://cosmostation.io/wallet/#extension)

## Create an account/wallet to receive funds on CLI

Initialise `cudos-noded CLI` to get started.

```shell
cudos-noded keys add <INSERT-YOUR-WALLET-NAME>



